docs/pages/running-tests.markdown, before:

---
title: Running the tests
prev: writing-tests.html
next: compiling-tests.html
---

Tests written using *libutest* are meant to be compiled into a separate
executable file. Therefore to be able to run it, there needs to be a `main`
function.

There is a default main provided which you can insert into your program with
`UT_DEFAULT_MAIN` (now deprecated). Starting from version 0.2, there is no need
to manually include `UT_DEFAULT_MAIN` anymore, as the default `main` function
is included in the library and is used unless your code defines your own entry
point function.

`UT_DEFAULT_MAIN`

:   <p>*Deprecated.* This macro expands to definition of a `main()`
    function.</p>

However, if you are not satisfied with it and want something more complex, you
can write your own entrypoint. In that case you will need `ut_run_all_tests`
function to run the tests.

`int ut_run_all_tests (UtFlags flags)`{.C}

:   Run all registered tests from all suites. This function returns number of
    failed tests. The argument allows you to customize the execution of tests.
    It is a bitset, which should be accessed only by provided constants.

     * `UT_QUIET` disables all output
     * `UT_NO_FORK` makes everything run in same thread
     * use `0` if you want no flag

    Not printing can be useful if the tests are run as part of a script or in
    other automated way. The result can still be determined based on exit
    value.

    Disabling forking is useful when you want to use a tool like [Valgrind],
    which gives you confusing output when many processes take place. However,
    disabling the forking will lead to segmentation fault should any single
    test crash.

[Valgrind]: http://www.valgrind.org/

Commit message:

Undeprecate UT_DEFAULT_MAIN
If the system does not support main as a weak symbol, it is necessary to
include this macro (or write custom main).

docs/pages/running-tests.markdown, after:

---
title: Running the tests
prev: writing-tests.html
next: compiling-tests.html
---

Tests written using *libutest* are meant to be compiled into a separate
executable file. Therefore to be able to run it, there needs to be a `main`
function.

There is a default main provided which you can insert into your program with
`UT_DEFAULT_MAIN`. However, starting from version 0.2, there is no need
to manually include `UT_DEFAULT_MAIN` anymore, as the default `main` function
is included in the library and is used unless your code defines your own entry
point function (as weak symbol). If your system does not support `main` as a
weak symbol, you will have to resolve to including it yourself..

`UT_DEFAULT_MAIN`

:   <p>This macro expands to definition of a `main()` function.</p>

However, if you are not satisfied with it and want something more complex, you
can write your own entrypoint. In that case you will need `ut_run_all_tests`
function to run the tests.

`int ut_run_all_tests (UtFlags flags)`{.C}

:   Run all registered tests from all suites. This function returns number of
    failed tests. The argument allows you to customize the execution of tests.
    It is a bitset, which should be accessed only by provided constants.

     * `UT_QUIET` disables all output
     * `UT_NO_FORK` makes everything run in same thread
     * use `0` if you want no flag

    Not printing can be useful if the tests are run as part of a script or in
    other automated way. The result can still be determined based on exit
    value.

    Disabling forking is useful when you want to use a tool like [Valgrind],
    which gives you confusing output when many processes take place. However,
    disabling the forking will lead to segmentation fault should any single
    test crash.

[Valgrind]: http://www.valgrind.org/
